# traffic
HOW DOES CHANGING TRAFFIC FLOW AFFECT ACCIDENTS?
There is always a risk in driving a car. However, this effect can be minimized if the dangers are known in advance and necessary precautions are taken. Since it is known that there cannot be a single cause of traffic accidents, it would be appropriate to focus on many factors. If these are analyzed well and healthy solutions can be produced, the damage caused by accidents to both the country's economy and people will also be reduced. The factors caused by accidents can be examined in terms of people, vehicles, roads and the environment. Since the human element is responsible for causing the accident of vehicles, it would be appropriate to examine the issue in terms of human errors. In addition to the drivers' driving skills, psychological, socio-cultural, economic and geographical characteristics such as the region they live in can also cause accidents. Each of these features related to driver characteristics can be a research topic, and when they are considered alone, very different results HOW DOES CHANGING TRAFFIC FLOW AFFECT ACCIDENTS?
There is always a risk in driving a car. However, this effect can be minimized if the dangers are known in advance and necessary precautions are taken. Since it is known that there cannot be a single cause of traffic accidents, it would be appropriate to focus on many factors. If these are analyzed well and healthy solutions can be produced, the damage caused by accidents to both the country's economy and people will also be reduced. The factors caused by accidents can be examined in terms of people, vehicles, roads and the environment. Since the human element is responsible for causing the accident of vehicles, it would be appropriate to examine the issue in terms of human errors. In addition to the drivers' driving skills, psychological, socio-cultural, economic and geographical characteristics such as the region they live in can also cause accidents. Each of these features related to driver characteristics can be a research topic, and when they are considered alone, very different results can emerge. We can separate the causes of traffic accidents into human-related and non-human factors. The part about drivers can be sorted in the form of lack of information, cultural differences, mistakes caused by human intensity during vacation times. Deceptions such as taking action without paying attention to traffic rules for pedestrians and passengers are also shown among the causes of traffic accidents (Rostam and Ismail, 2011:898). In terms of the impact of the human factor in traffic accidents, when evaluated from the point of view of drivers, experience, age, alcoholism and drugs, illness and disability, predisposition to accidents in the long term, fatigue, weakness, overeating, drug interactions can be sorted in the short term. While driving, there may also be situations that develop suddenly for some herds. For example, driver errors such as rude behavior in traffic, excessive speeding tendency, immoral and disrespectful driving tendency, unstable actions and going out into traffic without wearing a seat belt or helmet are also the situations that cause accidents (Petridou and Moustaki, 2000:820). In a study in which the effects of holiday holiday periods on traffic accidents were examined (Kaygısız et al., 2012), attention was drawn to the increase in fatal and injured traffic accidents during the Eid holidays. The technical equipment and characteristics of the vehicles are also very important. They should pay attention to the rules for their own legislation, which public transport and heavy vehicles must comply with. The road and environmental factor, on the other hand, can be handled in a very comprehensive way. As well as the physical structure of the road, the quality of maintenance and repair is effective, conditions such as the geographical features of the region, weather conditions and environmental structure are also important for accidents. Sharp bends and the fact that road potholes are in places that cannot be seen very much can also cause an accident in proportion to the speed of drivers. Fatal traffic accidents are reported on highways every day. Within the scope of these reports, activities such as road safety campaigns are increasingly focused on. For this reason, continuous training of drivers on safe road driving and compliance with traffic rules may be important in preventing accidents (Atubi, 2012:256). One can also mention many harmful effects of traffic accidents on human psychology. Especially after the accident, mental disorders such as “post-accident stress disorder” can be observed in people involved in the accident, and it is known that this condition also leads to physical problems such as brain and spinal cord injuries. Due to these, the long treatment process in the hospital causes many socio-economic damages, such as the elimination of material damages, police and rescue services, loss of production and welfare. As a result, people may also experience job losses in the long term (European Transport Safety Council, 2007). The main problem that needs to be overcome in the way of preventing traffic accidents is to investigate the elements that contribute to the process and to make plans and applications on how to eliminate the effects of these elements. This is an indication that more research materials are needed than are available, and as a result, their implementation requires solving a number of ethical and social engineering problemscan emerge. We can separate the causes of traffic accidents into human-related and non-human factors. The part about drivers can be sorted in the form of lack of information, cultural differences, mistakes caused by human intensity during vacation times. Deceptions such as taking action without paying attention to traffic rules for pedestrians and passengers are also shown among the causes of traffic accidents (Rostam and Ismail, 2011:898). In terms of the impact of the human factor in traffic accidents, when evaluated from the point of view of drivers, experience, age, alcoholism and drugs, illness and disability, predisposition to accidents in the long term, fatigue, weakness, overeating, drug interactions can be sorted in the short term. While driving, there may also be situations that develop suddenly for some herds. For example, driver errors such as rude behavior in traffic, excessive speeding tendency, immoral and disrespectful driving tendency, unstable actions and going out into traffic without wearing a seat belt or helmet are also the situations that cause accidents (Petridou and Moustaki, 2000:820). In a study in which the effects of holiday holiday periods on traffic accidents were examined (Kaygısız et al., 2012), attention was drawn to the increase in fatal and injured traffic accidents during the Eid holidays. The technical equipment and characteristics of the vehicles are also very important. They should pay attention to the rules for their own legislation, which public transport and heavy vehicles must comply with. The road and environmental factor, on the other hand, can be handled in a very comprehensive way. As well as the physical structure of the road, the quality of maintenance and repair is effective, conditions such as the geographical features of the region, weather conditions and environmental structure are also important for accidents. Sharp bends and the fact that road potholes are in places that cannot be seen very much can also cause an accident in proportion to the speed of drivers. Fatal traffic accidents are reported on highways every day. Within the scope of these reports, activities such as road safety campaigns are increasingly focused on. For this reason, continuous training of drivers on safe road driving and compliance with traffic rules may be important in preventing accidents (Atubi, 2012:256). One can also mention many harmful effects of traffic accidents on human psychology. Especially after the accident, mental disorders such as “post-accident stress disorder” can be observed in people involved in the accident, and it is known that this condition also leads to physical problems such as brain and spinal cord injuries. Due to these, the long treatment process in the hospital causes many socio-economic damages, such as the elimination of material damages, police and rescue services, loss of production and welfare. As a result, people may also experience job losses in the long term (European Transport Safety Council, 2007). The main problem that needs to be overcome in the way of preventing traffic accidents is to investigate the elements that contribute to the process and to make plans and applications on how to eliminate the effects of these elements. This is an indication that more research materials are needed than are available, and as a result, their implementation requires solving a number of ethical and social engineering problems.
 WHAT INCREASES ACCIDENT RATES?
The traffic accident defect rate indicates the responsibilities of the parties in accidents that occur. In order to determine the defect rates, the statement minutes, witness statements, crime scene images, the location of the vehicles, the evaluations are very important.
Traffic accidents generally result in three ways. The types of traffic accidents can be listed as follows:
1. Fatal Traffic Accidents
2. Traffic Accidents with Injuries
3. Traffic Accidents with Material Damage
In general, traffic accidents with material damage are seen the most. There are many questions that come to mind for this type of accident. The first of these is who covers the damage in a traffic accident with material damage. Traffic insurance companies pay according to the defect rate in traffic accidents with material damage.
Another type of accident is a traffic accident with injuries. The insurance company of the defective party also pays according to the defect rate in traffic accidents with injuries. Insurance companies look at factors such as age and salary, as well as the defect rate, to pay out.
In fatal traffic accidents, which are the last type of accident, traffic insurance companies pay to the mother, father, spouse and children of the deceased person.
Traffic insurance companies have previously stated that they pay according to the defect rate in the accident. If a defect has been given to one party as a result of an accident and no defect has been given to the other party, the defective party does not have the right to compensation.
CAN WE PREDICT ACCIDENT RATES OVER TIME?
The answer is yes. How? With the prevention of excessive speed.
HOW CAN EXCESSIVE SPEED BE PREVENTED?

In relation to speed management and control, an effective series of interventions have been identified that, when applied well, provide tangible benefits in reducing accidents and mitigating accident consequences.

Legislative and deterrent supervision: The two most effective measures for reducing injuries and deaths on the highway are the determination of speed limits and effective, widespread supervision. Experience in many different countries shows that setting legal speed limits is only a prerequisite. Unless the speed is controlled by continuous and visible methods, setting legal speed limits has only a short-term effect on reducing the speed. However, when the control is carried out entirely based on visible methods, albeit continuous and widespread, another undesirable result arises from the point of view of deterrence: drivers take into account “visible” hints that there is or may be control and adjust their behavior accordingly. More clearly, the establishment of police supervision entirely on visible methods and strategies means marking routes where there is and is not supervision, violations increase where there is no supervision.

Depending on how the audit is carried out, there is a special or general deterrence effect, and it is necessary to take advantage of these different deterrence effects by taking into account needs and priorities. If a high level of visible supervision is carried out in certain areas at all times, either by the police or with fixed cameras, the main deterrent effect is limited only to these special areas. On the other hand, if high-visibility inspection methods are combined with strategically planned police teams or speed detection cameras and used, the perception that speed control can be done anywhere at any time strengthens in the public. This uncertainty about the place and time of the speed control forces drivers to stay within the legal limits, no matter where and when they are driving, and only in this way can general deterrence be achieved.

HOW DOES THE PREVENTION OF EXCESSIVE SPEED REDUCE ACCIDENTS?

At the heart of the activities aimed at preventing violations is the idea of ensuring that everyone benefits from the traffic environment, which is a common area of use, in a safe, fair and efficient manner. This basic need requires the reduction of the risk of accidents. The same approach is taken on the basis of intervention to violation behaviors that are directly related to the risk of accidents. Countless application examples have revealed results that support that speed control, which is one of the effective activities aimed at reducing risks in the traffic environment, is a correct and rational goal. The graphical representation below clarifies the relationship between speed and the change in the number of accidents.Dec.

By reducing the average speed on the highway, targeted reductions in the number of accidents, deaths and injuries can be achieved thanks to the following results:

Relatively low speeds
* gives the driver more time to notice dangerous situations,
• the distance traveled by the vehicle is reduced when reacting to a dangerous situation,
• after pressing the brake, the distance needed to stop is reduced,
* increases the ability of other road users to predict the speed of the vehicle before the impact,
* other road users have a better chance of avoiding a collision,
* the probability of the driver losing control of the vehicle decreases.

The main objective of the safe highway system is to establish a road transport system that allows human errors without causing death or serious injury. Although the idea that a safe highway system should be in a structure that allows for error may seem contradictory from the point of view of traffic safety, treating it as a traffic system that can tolerate error can bring more clarity to the issue. This, on the other hand, can be achieved to a large extent by reducing risks, and reducing risks by preventing rule violations. The prevention of excessive speed prevents a significant part of the risky situations caused by possible errors and unexpected road conditions from turning into an accident. Since the concrete benefit of reducing speed has been proven many times, this basic effect has manifested itself as a traffic phenomenon that is no longer subject to much discussion.

The violation group called ”moderate speed violation", which means driving over the legal speed limit of 10-15 km/h, plays a bigger role in traffic accidents with serious consequences compared to higher speed violations. The reason for this is that moderate speed violations are more common than excessive speed violations.
HOW DID RURAL AND URBAN AREAS DIFFER?
Physical transformations and social changes have occurred in urban and rural areas over time. However, the measure of this change is when the overall character of the area is changed, urban identity problems arise. At this point, planning, conservation decisions and applications become very important. Because, on the one hand, the characteristics of these areas from the past should be preserved, and on the other hand, it should be ensured that they can keep up with modern requirements. In this study, in the planning decisions; within the protection-identity relationship (sustainability, locality, naturalness), the role and impact of characteristics specific to each city or rural area have been discussed.
